p8105_hw3_csf2135
================
2023-10-12

Your solutions to Problems 1, 2, and 3 should be implemented in your
.Rmd file, and your git commit history should reflect the process you
used to solve these Problems.

For this Problem, we will assess adherence to the instructions above
regarding repo structure, git commit history, and whether we are able to
knit your .Rmd to ensure that your work is reproducible. Adherence to
appropriate styling and clarity of code will be assessed in Problems 1+
using the style rubric.

This homework includes figures; the readability of your embedded plots
(e.g. font sizes, axis labels, titles) will be assessed in Problems 1+.

# Problem 1

This problem uses the Instacart data. DO NOT include this dataset in
your local data directory; instead, load the data from the
p8105.datasets using:

``` r
library(p8105.datasets)
data("instacart")
```

*The goal is to do some exploration of this dataset.*

``` r
instacart |> 
  colnames()
```

*To that end, write a short description of the dataset, noting the size
and structure of the data, describing some key variables, and giving
illustrative examples of observations.*

The `instacart` dataset includes 15 variables and 1384617 describing
instacart order information (`order_id`, `order_hour_of_day`,
`product_id`) and descriptions of where the order contents are located
in the warehouse (`aisle`, `department`). Additionally, the `instacart`
dataset contains customer information such as `user_id`,
`days_since_prior_order`, and if products are being reordered
(`reordered`). The data is long format, meaning each product ordered has
a unique row. The dataset includes information for 131209 unique orders
placed by 131209 users of the app, indicating that there is only data
for one order per user. The mean number of products included in any one
order is 10.55 items.

*How many aisles are there, and which aisles are the most items ordered
from?* There are 134 aisles. Most items are from the aisles: fresh
vegetables, fresh fruits, packaged vegetables fruits.

Make a plot that shows the number of items ordered in each aisle,
limiting this to aisles with more than 10000 items ordered. Arrange
aisles sensibly, and organize your plot so others can read it. Make a
table showing the three most popular items in each of the aisles “baking
ingredients”, “dog food care”, and “packaged vegetables fruits”. Include
the number of times each item is ordered in your table. Make a table
showing the mean hour of the day at which Pink Lady Apples and Coffee
Ice Cream are ordered on each day of the week; format this table for
human readers (i.e. produce a 2 x 7 table).

# Problem 2

This problem uses the BRFSS data. DO NOT include this dataset in your
local data directory; instead, load the data from the p8105.datasets
package using

``` r
library(p8105.datasets)
data("brfss_smart2010")
```

First, do some data cleaning:

format the data to use appropriate variable names; focus on the “Overall
Health” topic include only responses from “Excellent” to “Poor” organize
responses as a factor taking levels ordered from “Poor” to “Excellent”
Using this dataset, do or answer the following (commenting on the
results of each):

In 2002, which states were observed at 7 or more locations? What about
in 2010? Construct a dataset that is limited to Excellent responses, and
contains, year, state, and a variable that averages the data_value
across locations within a state. Make a “spaghetti” plot of this average
value over time within a state (that is, make a plot showing a line for
each state across years – the geom_line geometry and group aesthetic
will help). Make a two-panel plot showing, for the years 2006, and 2010,
distribution of data_value for responses (“Poor” to “Excellent”) among
locations in NY State.

# Problem 3

Accelerometers have become an appealing alternative to self-report
techniques for studying physical activity in observational studies and
clinical trials, largely because of their relative objectivity. During
observation periods, the devices can measure MIMS in a short period;
one-minute intervals are common. Because accelerometers can be worn
comfortably and unobtrusively, they produce around-the-clock
observations.

This problem uses accelerometer data collected on 250 participants in
the NHANES study. The participants’ demographic data can be downloaded
here, and their accelerometer data can be downloaded here. Variables
\*MIMS are the MIMS values for each minute of a 24-hour day starting at
midnight.

Load, tidy, merge, and otherwise organize the data sets. Your final
dataset should include all originally observed variables; exclude
participants less than 21 years of age, and those with missing
demographic data; and encode data with reasonable variable classes
(i.e. not numeric, and using factors with the ordering of tables and
plots in mind).

Produce a reader-friendly table for the number of men and women in each
education category, and create a visualization of the age distributions
for men and women in each education category. Comment on these items.

Traditional analyses of accelerometer data focus on the total activity
over the day. Using your tidied dataset, aggregate across minutes to
create a total activity variable for each participant. Plot these total
activities (y-axis) against age (x-axis); your plot should compare men
to women and have separate panels for each education level. Include a
trend line or a smooth to illustrate differences. Comment on your plot.

Accelerometer data allows the inspection activity over the course of the
day. Make a three-panel plot that shows the 24-hour activity time
courses for each education level and use color to indicate sex. Describe
in words any patterns or conclusions you can make based on this graph;
including smooth trends may help identify differences.
